---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Life and Handle Classes"
---

My partner and I are several hours into the last project, a simulator for [Conway's Game of Life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life), and similar to Darwin, we have been facing many design challenges. I'm going to talk about a couple of them here on this blog for the purposes of making my own understanding more concrete - kind of like [rubber duck debugging](http://pressupinc.com/blog/2014/06/psychology-underlying-power-rubber-duck-debugging/), but for concepts and not code. For one thing, we're dealing with inheritance and polymorphism. Since our Life grid must be able to support different kinds of cells simulataneously, and you can't have a heterogeneous container for the grid in C++, we must define an interface or abstract class, AbstractCell. Furthermore, in order to get dynamic binding behavior for this class, we create a handle class, Cell, that wraps around an AbstractCell pointer, and is what we end up using for our grid container.

Additionally, there is the repeated challenge of "no getters and setters". In class, Glenn was talking about a way of processing the grid that involved the Life class iterating through each cell that is alive and having each neighbor increment a counter for "alive neighbors". I was a bit confused how one could accomplish that without setters. But I suppose that, instead of accessing each cell's `neighbordhood_census` variable directly, one could just call a method on the Cell such as `tallyAliveNeighbor()` that would tell the Cell to do this itself. A friend of mine was talking about how in order to have this no getters/setters OO behavior, it helps to think of the objects as "having a conversation", telling each other to do things based on what they know. The "Classes, Responsibilities, Collaboration" card strategy as mentioned in [this article from class](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2073723/core-java/why-getter-and-setter-methods-are-evil.html?page=2) has also been helpful as well.

**Tip of the Week**: Stop playing Fallout 4 and do your schoolwork. Do you know how long Fallout 4 will be around? As long as your PC or console lasts, which will be multiple years. Do you know how many days are left until the end of the semester (not counting finals)? *Twenty*. That's it. Get back to work. (Personally, I've never gotten into the Fallout series, but I am eagerly looking forward to spending many hours in [Legacy of the Void](us.battle.net/sc2/en/legacy-of-the-void/) once classes are out.)