---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Allocator Wrap-Up and Implicit Type Conversion"
---

The Allocator project turned out to be a lot less painful and way more fun than I had expected. I do a lot of programming "on paper" - that is, before I start coding I like to draw out what it is that I expect to happen behind the scenes - and this project was very suitable for that style. This project also pushed me more into the habit of writing unit tests. Whenever my partner and I thought of possible corner cases or other situations that we weren't sure would be caught by our code, the first thing we did was write a unit test or two. This functioned either as 
a. assurance our algorithm was working as expected or 
b. a reminder to go implement code to handle that case.
Anyway in general, it helped that I had a very patient and hard-working partner on this project. Thanks for teaming up with me, Phillip!

There were some really interesting lectures this week on C++, and I felt that I got a lot out of Friday's class especially. I can tell I'm learning a lot when Glenn is asking questions either to a student or to the class, and when I answer them in my head I turn out to be wrong. That was definitely the case with implicit type conversions, which I've seen before but hadn't given enough thought to. For instance, there are some interesting things happening in this code:

```
struct Elephant {
	Elephant(int) {}
};

void f (Elephant e) {}

int main() {
	Elephant x = 2;		// invokes Elephant(int) !
	f(e);				// invokes copy constructor
	f(4);				// invokes Elephant(int) !
}
```
The first surprise is that you can invoke the `Elephant(int)` constructor via a simple declaration/initialization with an `int`, as opposed to needing to write `Elephant x(2);`. Additionally, it's very cool that with implicit type converstion, one is able to call a function that takes one kind of object but pass it another type that can be used to construct that object on the fly.

**Tip of the Week**: There was a day last weekend where I was feeling very ill and couldn't leave the house, but my partner and I had agreed beforehand that we needed to work on our project that day. We ended up using [Skype](http://www.skype.com/en/) to work remotely - we had voice chat on, and would take turns sharing screens. Despite a little bit of extra time spent to set up my computer, it worked out beautifully and we got a lot done. I had stopped using Skype before the screen-sharing feature was added, but I may start using it again! So if on future projects you and your partner are having trouble finding ways to meet in person, I highly recommend this strategy.