---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Beware the Nones of October"
---

It's been another interesting week in Object-Oriented Programming as our first exam approaches. Unfortunately, lately I've been too busy to really give this class the focus it deserves. Turns out that working 20 hours a week, taking 3 classes, and moving by yourself into a new apartment 19 miles away is not so easy!

Still, I'm getting a lot out of the lectures. I'm glad we went over lambdas and anonymous functions, because they're an advanced programming technique that is somewhat difficult to grok at first, but from my experience I see them *everywhere*. I wish I was better at recognizing the pattern of where best to use lambdas; on the other hand, I use [JetBrains tools](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/) and they are pretty good at recommending code optimizations like that.

The other topic we started that I really appreciate is design principles. We haven't talked about them in class yet, but this week we were assigned readings over the [Single Responsibility Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle) and the [Open-Closed Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open/closed_principle). When I first learned about some of these design principles, I wasn't entirely sure how they applied to the programming I had done so far, which was mostly school assignments. Additionally, the examples that textbooks give in describing these principles are always overly simplistic and usually don't do the concept justice. Even then, it's hard to apply the principles to class projects, which are meant to be written in a few weeks and then forgotten about. However, when I started working at my current job, I was assigned a huge project that had to be built from the bottom up. My mentor specifically recommended that I follow the [Model View ViewModel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_View_ViewModel) design pattern, which is meant for object-oriented programming especially in applications where a user interface is involved. Following these design patterns saved me huge amounts of time, because I was frequently needing to make changes to my project that would have been nightmares had I not followed principles like decoupling and abstraction. Even today at work, I almost started adding a bunch of new variables and functions to an existing class, when I realized that all of it should fall under a new class with its own responsibility. Made things way simpler to think about, at the very least.

**Tip of the Week**: There are lots of tools for online document collaboration, but one of the simplest and easiest to use is [PiratePad](http://piratepad.net). It's very convenient when you want to share some text or code with someone quickly without having to make say, a new Google document and set up sharing. Plus, its mascot is a frog with an eyepatch - hard to get much cooler than that.