---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Bloomberg and Exceptions"
---

Another short week (for me) due to Labor Day. Wednesday had an unexpected surprise in the form of a guest speaker from [Bloomberg L.P.](http://www.bloomberg.net) I didn't know much about Bloomberg outside of "something finance-related" and "they're always hanging around the CS department". Speaker Chris Martin's presentation seemed to be aimed towards people like me, since it talked a lot about what financial services Bloomberg provides while remaining insistent that "Bloomberg is a software company". And I was convinced. I found it very interesting that nearly all of the software they use was made in-house - that is an extreme concept rarely found outside of a few other big names these days (Microsoft and Apple come to mind, but maybe not even to as much of an extent). So while I have absolutely no interest in the world of finance, the idea of making products aimed for your own company's use is appealing. On the other hand, I don't want to live in NYC and I already have a software engineering job, so there's that.

The other class day this week was spent discussing exceptions and a bit about strings. I remember studying exceptions for the first time in Generic Programming & the STL, but not really using them in my subsequent CS classes, so what I learned had fallen by the wayside. However, for my internship project this summer, I was responsible for building a GUI that talked to hardware, and handling exceptions became extremely important. For instance, if the user requested that the hardware device output voltage in a range outside its capabilities, the device driver would refuse the request and throw an error. But the user is working with a GUI, not directly with the device driver, so the GUI has to do something with that error, and exception handling with try/catch blocks was precisely the solution.

**Tip of the Week**: [Trello](https://trello.com/guide) is starting to become a common tool for teams to collaborate on projects and have everything in one easy-to-find place. It's now being integrated into Git and calendar applications such as Sunrise. I recommend giving it a look - chances are that sometime down the road you'll get pulled onto a project that uses a Trello board.