---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Generics and Voting"
---

I really enjoyed this week in ~~Generic Progr~~ Object-Oriented Programming. We did some exercises I remember from my previous Glenn Downing course, which were basically to implement some functions from the <algorithm> library. I think these are good ways to help one understand how to use a lot of handy C++ functions while getting practice with iterators, which are essential for working with data structures in many languages. I will say that back in Generic Programming, I was very nervous whenever Glenn asked us to get with the person next to us to work on these functions, but I've gotten a lot more confident over the past year when it comes to writing code in front of people. I think taking courses that required group/pair programming and getting my internship last summer really emboldened me to the point where I feel like I have ideas worth contributing. Which sounds kind of sad, but I wouldn't be surprised to learn others have [struggled with this same fear](https://medium.com/@aliciatweet/overcoming-impostor-syndrome-bdae04e46ec5).

Speaking of pair programming, this week wrapped up the first assignment where we could partner up - Australian Voting. I'd done this project before, but since it's a fun problem, I decided not to just regurgitate my old project, but get with a partner and see how they approached the problem. It was really rewarding, especially when we found that our new solution beat the pants off my project last summer. There was one weird thing that happened when we tried to optimize, however: we decided to replace a couple of vectors with deques, since we were doing a lot of .erase() at the beginning of a vector, where pop_front() on a deque would be much more efficient. This actually somehow made our code *slower*. If anyone has any ideas as to why that would happen, I'm all ears.

**Tip of the Week**: If you're going to HackTX this weekend, I'll see you there! This is only my second hackathon, but the first was pretty life-changing (not hyperbole) so I figured I'd give it another go. So here are tips both for myself and anyone else who's going:
1. Stand up and walk around frequently.
2. Don't eat too much junk food.
3. Bring a toothbrush and toothpaste to combat halitosis.