---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Cookies and Darwin"
---

Secret: even though I pretend that these blog entries are posted on Sunday, most weeks I write them on Friday so that the class is still fresh in my head. So since it's a very rainy Friday night, it's the perfect time to relax at home with [cookies](http://allrecipes.com/recipe/10419/quick-peanut-butter-cookies/) in the oven and Darwin.c++ open in Sublime Text.

With this latest project, Darwin, I've decided to try it on my own. Which means that I'm crazy and don't learn from past mistakes, because in Generic Programming, I went solo with my 4th project and had a miserable time. So we'll see. However, I do think this will be a good opportunity for me to practice software design, which is essentially what we're doing with such an open-ended project. During my summer internship I had to design an object-oriented program from scratch, and with what little experience I had, I think I did a pretty good job. However, I'm still working on it now and sometimes **really wish** that I had known then what I know now, because as I've probably mentioned before, a lot of my time is spent refactoring naive design choices from my earlier implementation. So this is a good opportunity to really think a project through from beginning to end, and hopefully on November 5th I will feel like I'm at least a little better at designing software now than I was 5 months ago. Don't let my age fool you - my experience in programming is relatively tiny and *just this week* I realized that Visual Studio has an output window for debugging messages. Seriously.

**Tip of the Week**: I feel like so much of my programming career is spent trying to parse textual data. While I love languages enough to find rolling my own parser at least somewhat enjoyable, hours are saved and consequently household chores get done when instead I can just find the right tool to do my parsing. Honestly, I'm still looking for the God Parser to meet all my needs, and with any luck something well-documented. But when it comes to HTML, if you know Java then [jsoup](http://jsoup.org/) is your best friend. Simple, straightforward, and by gosh it has even has [examples](http://jsoup.org/cookbook/input/load-document-from-url) and [good documentation](http://jsoup.org/apidocs/).