---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Midterm"
---

Going to do my best to write this coherently, as I've come down with some awful stomach bug this weekend and can barely stand up.

This was an eventful week in OOP since we had our first midterm on Thursday. I remember struggling with Glenn's tests in Generic Programming & the STL, but this time, despite getting little time to study since I'm still in the middle of moving, I think I did really well. I don't know if it's because I've seen a lot of this material before, or because I'm writing code on a daily basis now due to my job, or (most likely) a combination of those things. In any case, I thought the problems were fair and reflective of the material we went over in class. I'm not a big fan of writing out code on paper, since it's so easy to make little mistakes (indeed, I caught several when I went back over my test to check my work), but I suppose it's good practice for technical interviews and the like.

The next project begins tomorrow. The project link is broken right now, but I'm pretty sure the goal will be to roll our own allocator. I remember learning some about allocators in Generic Programming, but otherwise this is going to be a completely new project for me. I expect a challenge involving lots of pointers and forgetting to use the -> operator instead of .

**Tip of the Week**: I'm halfway convinced that my stomach troubles are stemming from multiple weeks of not getting nearly enough sleep. Programming is a very brain-intensive activity, and even though that can tend to keep me up at late hours, I probably would have much better quality code if I wasn't sleep-deprived. So be smart about your health and [get yourself to bed](http://davidzych.com/programmers-and-sleep/).