---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: C++ References and Career Events"
---

As we are now delving deep into our second project, Australian Voting, we are also starting to get very focused on important aspects of the C++ language that are easily overlooked by beginners. One of those is the difference between references and pointers. I think the use of the ampersand (&) symbol in both the context of getting a variable's address and indicating that a variable is a reference tends to confuse a lot of people, including me when I was first learning the language. One of the things I think Glenn is good about emphasizing is that he wants us to be very precise about the words we use when we talk about code. So if someone calls a "reference" an "address", even if they understand for the most part what the code is doing, Glenn will correct them. To drive this particular point home:

```
int* i = &j; 	// &j is an address
				// & is returning the address of j

int*& k = i;		// k is a reference
				// & after the type says that k will be a reference to a variable of that type

void doSomething(int& myNum);	// takes a reference to an int and calls it myNum inside the function
```

Just be observant about the context where you see the ampersand. As much as I like C++, I admit that the reuse of operators like this can be very confusing.

Finally, some words about career events. The Career Fair is important in that it gives you an arena to explore a huge variety of companies and organizations that are looking for new hires. So go check it out if only for that reason. But I don't think it's a very good place to learn about companies in detail, because it's crowded, everyone is competing with you to talk to recruiters, and the recruiters would rather just hand you an info sheet than answer a bunch of questions about their company when there are people waiting behind you. So, if there are particular companies that seem interesting, I highly recommend checking to see if they have an info session at UT. You will get a lot more specific and honest information about the company, it's a lot less stressful than the Career Fair. There will still be recruiters taking resumes at those events too. So since I'm already giving [unsolicited](https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/freedom-learn/201012/unsolicited-advice-i-hate-it-you-hate-it-so-do-your-kids) [advice](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sezin-koehler/why-i-stopped-giving-unsolicited-advice_b_7985278.html), let's just go straight into the TotW.

**Tip of the Week**: Dress comfortably for career events. Sure, you want to look your best. But if you were a recruiter, would you rather talk to a sweaty person in an expensive suit jacket, or a clean-looking person in a light cotton button-up? Are you going to be able to initiate small talk with strangers after walking around in high heels all day has sapped the energy from you? Know your comfort limits and don't make a stressful situation more nerve-racking than it already is!