---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Darwin and Lessons Learned"
---

I didn't actually mean to doom myself last week when I said I hadn't learned my lesson about trying to do these projects solo, but, well... since I only got Darwin turned in yesterday evening despite working on it without distraction all week long, I suppose that's another clue that two heads are better than one. I'm a little bummed about the poor grade I'm sure to receive, but I'm also seasoned enough to realize that while grades can be somewhat important in the short term, after graduating and getting your first job they are essentially meaningless. However, what you learn in a class can stick with you for a lifetime, and that's why I went into tens of thousands of dollars in debt to get a second Bachelor's degree in the first place. The "tl;dr" version of this can be ineloquently summed up by good ol' George Dubya:

<center><iframe width="400" height="300" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/-ej7ZEnjSeA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>

Did I learn some things from this project besides my missed opportunity at teamwork? Sure. It was an interesting exercise in software design -- especially not being able to use getters and setters -- and there were a couple of times I ended up refactoring a bit because of a poor initial choice in my data structure. I also liked getting more practice in designing iterators (which I ended up doing maybe two or three times because of refactoring, hah), and finding ways to make my life easier by making small, modular functions and classes.

In any case, we haven't gotten the last project yet but I'm eager to start. And I *have* already found a project partner for this one!

**Tip of the Week**: I know I already posted on Piazza about this, but it's seriously exciting so I'm going to mention it again -- [JetBrains CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/) now supports the Google Test library! I am a huge fan of IntelliJ, a Java IDE, and ReSharper, a plugin for C# programming in Visual Studio, so I've been watching CLion development closely. I know it's cool and all to try to program on a Linux box in emacs over ssh, but if you're like me and don't have the time to learn a bunch of new keyboard commands just so that you can f\*\*\*ing copy/paste or save a file, a modern IDE is for you. It's still in its early stages, so cut it some slack, but so far I've been very pleased with it. I did nearly all of Project 4 in CLion, and the visual debugger is a lifesaver.