---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: OOP Beginnings"
---

Hello, my name is KC and you’ve reached the first of my weekly series of blog posts covering my Object-Oriented Programming course!

I've been eager to take a course specifically focusing on object-oriented programming for a long time. When I started coding for the first time at Austin Community College, it was in C++, but definitely more in the [functional programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming) style than object-oriented. Future courses gave me hints here and there about how to make my code more object-oriented, but I still felt stuck in the functional habit. It really wasn't until my internship this summer at National Instruments, where I was given a user interface design project, that I finally felt like I was getting the hang of "thinking with objects". Since I'm continuing my internship part-time this semester, I hope that that experience combined with this course will make me a more natural object-oriented programmer.

Since I've taken one of Glenn Downing’s C++ courses before (Generic Programming and the STL), these first two days of class have been mostly review for me. When we're going over code examples in class, I like how Glenn goes very in-depth into how the code works. For example, I was reminded that for the elementary C++ line:
cout << "Nothing to be done." << endl;
… there isn’t a cout function, rather, cout is an object (specifically of class ostream) that can be written to using the << operator. It's very easy to forget how things work under the hood after one has typed similar C++ statements hundreds of times, but understanding what every line of code does rather than just writing things out of habit I think really separates a mediocre programmer from a good one.

I look forward to further challenging my preconceptions and assumptions of the C++ language in our upcoming projects and future lectures.

Tip of the Week: JetBrains develops extremely powerful IDEs. They recently released their first C/C++ IDE call [CLion](https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/). As a student, your utexas.edu email address allows you to use CLion and other [JetBrains software for free](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/) for free (an individual CLion license is normally $199).