---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: SQL to Refactoring"
---

A SQL query walks into a bar, approaches two tables and asks, "Can I join you?"

*What did you do this past week?*

We wrapped up learning SQL this week and started learning about refactoring. I'm glad for this, because I already learned SQL in Dr. Cannata's Data Management class, while refactoring is a subject exclusive to Software Engineering and something that I think every programmer should learn how to do. Our assigned reading for refactoring was written by Martin Fowler, a name I've known for a long time because he has so many great articles on software. I think I need to read the book a little closer, however - I was called on in class today (probably because I was falling asleep), and struggled to answer questions about abstract classes because I forgot what the `abstract` keyword meant.

*What's in your way?*

Finishing project 5. Most of my team has already been working hard on this phase. It's good that we've made some progress early on, but there's still a lot to do.

*What will you do next week?*

Wrap up the project. It's going to be a lot of work, but I can't wait to have it out of the way. My team doesn't present until the final day, which is good if we need time to practice our slides, but the downside is that I'll probably stress out about it until it's finally over with.

**Tip of the Week**: In my current project at work, I have to do a lot of UI stuff. So when I need to show the way a mouse-over event is handled, or describe how a button looks when it is pressed, rather than trying to make my colleagues try to compile my code, it's much easier to just let them see it. But I work in a tiny corner of a cubicle and can't make everyone walk over to look at my screen. So I use [ScreenToGif](https://screentogif.codeplex.com/) to record part of my screen and send it as an animated image via Slack or email. It's open source and very easy to use!