---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: The End"
---

There was no prompt for this blog entry, so I'm skipping the questions and "Tip of the Week", since I'm not sure they're relevant, nor will be seen by other students. Instead I'll talk about my impressions of the last exam and class as a whole.

The last exam was not unfair. The code we were asked to write was very similar (if not exactly the same) as code we looked at in class. However, I didn't think it was very representative of the most important things we should have learned coming out of the lectures. Most prominently: the 55-point question asking us to write a Document Type Definition (DTD). I would be astounded if a company ever asked someone to write XML schema in an interview. I think most CS majors, should they ever have the need for an XML schema, are bright enough to be able to look at an example on the internet and come up with one from there. Also, there were not one, but *two* tricky SQL questions. There exists a class specifically for learning SQL well, and that's Data Management, where you spend much more time mastering aggregate functions and subqueries than in this course. Finally, I find myself using regexes all the time, and this was my first class in which regexes were taught with any depth, but they weren't tested on. Oh well. Naturally this all comes from a sense of disappointment that I didn't do very well on the exam, but it's all water under the bridge now.

That aside, this class leaves me with mixed feelings. I loved the first half of the class where we learned Python. But the second half was this huge hodge-podge of material on top of the things we needed to learn for our project, and I feel like nothing was given enough time to sink in or master. I have two recommendations:

1. Provide lectures on the technologies that we are required to use in our project. I think 50 minutes is the perfect amount of time to get a good idea of what a particular "framework" or "platform" does and whether we want to be the person in our group to master that technology and be responsible for it. If we don't get taught about these technologies in class, then I feel like the course deserves an "Independent Inquiry" flag (which will be a required flag for future CS graduates).
2. More refactoring and design patterns lectures. I really liked Martin Fowler's book and website on refactoring techniques, and I feel like adhering to good design patterns and knowing how to refactor really separates amateur programmers from expert ones.

To make these things happen, I say just nix the lectures on XML, JSON, and SQL. Even relational algebra is covered quite well in Data Management and could be skipped (though I enjoy it).

But hey! I am not the one who gets to make these choices, I'm just a soon-to-be grad with an online soapbox. What I choose to learn in the future is now in my hands. Thank you, Glenn Downing, for being a wonderful part of my successful final semester!