---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Project 3 in the bag"
---

Spring Break is over, which means that we are now on the downhill slope to the end of the semester. For me and many others in this class, this is my last semester before graduating, so the anticipation is palpable.

*What did you do this past week?*

As soon as I got back from my Spring Break vacation, I went to work on finding data for our project. One thing I thought was strange was that we were supposed to scrape data using a RESTful API. However, I don't think that this is the best way to scrape data, because many API services limit the number of calls you can make to them, making scraping not very feasible. In my limited experience, it seems like RESTful API calls are best used in the context of a web app that is trying to get up-to-date data at runtime.

In any case, I think we got what we need to start creating our database for part 2 of the project, and obviously enough to do the handful of static webpages that were required for part 1.

*What's in your way?*

Communication was a big challenge for our group. I think Spring Break really threw things off at first, and then it was difficult to get people on Slack all at the same time. But in the end we managed to piece all our parts together to a cohesive, working [website](http://swedishchef.me). We learned some good lessons for this round, and I'm looking forward to fixing a lot of things that were somewhat hacked together for this part in the next phase of the project.

*What will you do next week?*

I really like working with data, so I think I will be learning SQLAlchemy more and helping my teammate Josh with the database portion of the site. I would really like to learn all aspects of the project, especially more about hosting, Flask, and Bootstrap, but it's becoming clear to me that one person can't do everything in the amount of time alloted for this project, even if they wanted to.

**Tip of the Week**: This is a very stressful time of year for many students. Despite the weather being so nice, this is the time of the semester when projects ramp up, midterms and examinations are on the horizon, and often, that the 'A' you aimed for at the beginning of the semester is just Not Going To Happen. Don't let grades get you down. Don't let the rest of a course be defined by one failure - I have brought up grades from *awful* to A- or B+ multiple times. So keep your chin up and focus on what needs to be done in the present. If you are unable to get negative thoughts out of your head, your tuition has already paid for an excellent resource that is available to you - the [UT Counseling and Mental Health Center](http://cmhc.utexas.edu/). They are very confidential (your friends and parents never have to know) and even just having one counseling session can help you sort out the stress you've been feeling and put it in perspective.