---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Collatz at Last"
---

Starting with the prompts (still not used to these, but hopefully the flow will come with time):

*1) What did you do this past week?*

This past week in class I finished up the Collatz project, and learned more about Python. I definitely feel like I'm getting my money's worth from attending lectures. This weekend I actually showed my boyfriend a couple of things I learned from class about Python, which made me feel good because generally he's much more comfortable with the language than I am.

*2) What's in your way?*

Distractions. I thought I could just come back from PAX South last weekend and hit the books with full energy, but there was a lot of stuff on my mind and it was difficult to concentrate on schoolwork. I was just assigned a new project at work involving touch technology, which is really exciting, but since I'm intensely teaching myself a ton of new information, it's hard to keep the inertia going when I finally get home. In any case, I got all my homework done on time, but I'm falling behind on the readings, which is biting me in the ass on quizzes.

*3) What will you do next week?*

I assume we'll get the specifications for our 2nd project any day now, and I'm eager to get an early start on that. The only thing I know about it is that it's called "Netflix" - I could probably go look up information from previous years, but I don't want to spoil the surprise.

As I mentioned before, I'm really enjoying how much I'm getting out of this class so far. I'm learning a new language in my other class too, however, so one challenge I'm starting to face is not confusing Python with Haskell. I also need to stay vigilant on reading the texts. I do enjoy the JavaScript book (the author has a keen sense of humor), but the Extreme Programming text is a little too business-y for my taste.

**Tip of the Week**: In class we were shown a very C-style way of doing a swap in Python:

```
i = 10
j = 12
i ^= j		# i == 6, j == 12
j ^= i		# i == 6, j == 10
i ^= j		# i == 12, j == 10
```

However, Python has a much nicer and more natural way:

```
i = 3
j = 5
i, j = j, i
assert j == 3
assert i == 5
```
