---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: April Showers"
---

April is finally here, and I'm trying my best to stay on top of the bajillion things I need to do. Despite taking only 2 classes this semester, my life has a way of finding more crap to worry about and responsibilities to manage.

*What did you do this past week?*

This week in Software Engineering was a tad dull for me. We covered XML and regexes, topics that I'm familiar with, and had a speaker from Atlassian, who I saw last semester. I work with XML on a daily basis and it makes my eyes cross. On the other hand, Steve and Mark did a very good presentation, and I really like regexes, so it wasn't all bad. This was also the first week in the whole semester that I got full points on all the quizzes, which heartens me a little.

*What's in your way?*

The second phase of our team project is due on Thursday. I'm trying my best to fit in as much time as I can to work on it, but I keep getting foiled by the Docker stuff. I just don't understand it. Hopefully we can get a remote database up soon so I can start pumping it full of data we can use.

*What will you do next week?*

Lots of [data massaging](http://www.netlingo.com/word/massage-the-data.php), I expect, and helping my teammates get phase 2 in the bag.

**Tip of the Week**: There are a lot of websites intended to help people make regexes, which are very tricky to get correct, no matter how much experience you have with them. My favorite is [Regex101](https://regex101.com/). It gives you a breakdown of all the rules you have specified in your regex, which is helpful for me in clearing up any misunderstandings I may have about how a particular token works. It also allows you to provide test strings, so you can make sure you are matching text you want and *not* matching what you don't want.