---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Group Project Wrap-Up"
---

Two more weeks left! I'm a little sad that lectures are ending, but excited to see the results of other group's projects.

*What did you do this past week?*

On Thursday night, the final phase of our group's project was due. I'm relieved to have it out of the way, but I'm walking away from this project with a lot of disappointment. Our team was made up of five people who lived very far away from each other and had busy schedules, so nearly all of our collaboration was via Slack and Skype. Since I'm the only team member in the 1:00 p.m. section, there are actually two team members I have yet to meet in person. I ended up spending most of the project cleaning up our data sources and doing very little coding outside of making Python scripts to accomplish said data cleanup. I did learn some SQLAlchemy before the end, which was the part I was most interested in, but most of that back-end work was done by one of my teammates while I was busy getting our database in order. So I don't feel like I learned much from this project at all. Except maybe about food, since our project is about recipes. I can tell you all about the stuff in the grocery store now.

*What's in your way?*

Surviving the last quizzes, the presentation (which I'm not too worried about), and the second exam (which I am very worried about).

*What will you do next week?*

Finish critiques and the presentation. Our team is already about halfway there, and I'm pretty good at PowerPoint, so no problem.

**Tip of the Week**: Due to the nature of our work, I think it's very easy for programmers to "tune out" the rest of the world. We get trapped in our little bubble of having coders and software engineers all around us. Often we aren't given a chance to interact with the public and the world outside of programming to gain a fresh perspective. It's good to have a passion, though, so why not share your passion with your community? I am fortunate that my workplace offers many chances to volunteer for anything from after-school clubs to soup kitchens. In a few weeks I will be volunteering at [The Thinkery](http://thinkeryaustin.org/) to build paper circuits with kids. If I wasn't graduating though, I'd definitely check out UTeach's recently added [Computer Science Service Learning Program](https://outreach.uteach.utexas.edu/csp) that pairs you up with a school to show kids how to program an Arduino to learn both electrical engineering and computer science. How cool is that?