---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Winding Down"
---

I can't believe I only have one more week of classes and two exams before I graduate. Not that the time has necessarily gone by quickly - more like it always seemed like I'd be in school forever!

*What did you do this past week?*

On Monday we had our final lecture on design patterns before final project presentations began. I kind of wanted there to be a few more lectures left, because they are usually great learning experiences in this class, but I have been enjoying the presentations as well. There are so many bright and creative people in this class and I especially enjoy seeing the groups who are really proud of their work, even if the final product is kind of modest, because they worked so hard for it and learned so much.

*What's in your way?*

My group has yet to present, and I will have to go to the other class's section to join my team members for said presentation. We pretty much have the slides ready to go, but need to rehearse. Additionally, there is an exam on Thursday night in this class, and my grade on that will pretty much determine my grade for the course, since I am solidly in between a B and an A.

*What will you do next week?*

Study study study. Also helping a friend through a break-up. More below.

**Tip of the Week**: In my ripe old age of 30 years, I have been in multiple long-term relationships and seen many of my friends go through their own. Long-term romantic relationships are *hard*. So, so hard. Things may seem easy for a while, when you're still infatuated by this person, but it takes serious effort to keep things fresh and new and interesting over the years. This guy has the silliest name, but [Dr. NerdLove](http://www.doctornerdlove.com) actually has some great relationship advice on his blog. As you might guess, his columns are especially geared towards the geeky crowd, so they are more applicable to people like me and always entertaining.