---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: Spring Break vs. Project 3"
---

I now interrupt my regularly scheduled vacation packing for a weekly blog post! I was a little surprised to see that we have a blog post due this Sunday, since a lot of people may have already left for Spring Break vacations or family visits. Students are more likely to be back and able to blog next Sunday, but also less likely to remember the events of the week.

*What did you do this past week?*

Failed a quiz, aced a quiz, learned about the upcoming project. We are finally beginning Phase 1 of our team project, which is the big capstone of this course. I'm a little overwhelmed by the number of technologies we will have to use for this project, especially since hardly any of them have been mentioned previously in this course. I hope it's not assumed that all of us have experience with these trendy new frameworks like Bootstrap, Flask, and AngularJS, though I think we're capable enough to learn them.

*What's in your way?*

Spring Break vacation! I will be totally off the radar for 5 whole days, but then it's time to get cracking on the team project.

*What will you do next week?*

Hike through the Davis Mountains of West Texas, among other fun things. But as soon as I'm back, I'll be working hard on the class project. I also have a midterm in another class the Wednesday after Spring Break, so I'm going to be pretty busy as soon as my vacation ends.

**Tip of the Week**: Microsoft hosts a really fun competition on April 9 called the [College Puzzle Challenge](https://www.collegepuzzlechallenge.com/). You just need to get 3 other UT students for your team, and then you can register to compete. You have to show up all day on a Saturday, but you get free food plus a T-shirt, and it's a blast for anyone who enjoys the mental stimulation of problem solving!