---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Quiz Quandary"
---

*What did you do this past week?*

Mostly worked on the Netflix project. As Mr. Downing may or may not remember from previous courses, I have struggled in the past on projects where I chose not to get a partner. But due to my time restrictions during the two weeks of this project, I took a foolish risk and decided to try that again. *This time*, however, I succeeded in finishing the project on time, and even managed to complete the extra credit project goal. I think I lucked out, though I certainly put in the hours late at night getting it done.

Otherwise, in class this past week we learned about Python lambda functions, generators, and list comprehensions, which is pretty cool because I've learned about those same things in Haskell for my Programming Languages class this semester. I really like it when the courses I'm taking tie together in some way.

*What's in your way?*

These quizzes. Ugggh. It would be one thing if I was losing points on them just because I didn't study enough, but my laptop is really slow, and the timer starts counting down before the quiz has even loaded for me. In Friday's quiz, for example, I had to rush through the first question, which caused me to mess up my answer, and then I barely squeaked out the correct answer to the 2nd one before it told me I was already out of time. So I missed the 3rd one too, which I would have answered correctly had I even seen it. It's really frustrating and puts me in a bad mood for the rest of the class. I wish the quizzes either weren't worth so much of my final grade, and/or that we could get some participation points on the quiz just for showing up and taking it.

*What will you do next week?*

Start preparing for the exam. Maybe start shopping online for a new laptop, though I really don't have much money to spend. I'm not going to have much use for a laptop after graduating in May, either.

I'm looking forward to getting started on the group project, so hopefully we'll get more information on that soon.

**Tip of the Week**: This isn't really related to programming, but seriously: go vote in the primary elections. The League of Women Voters offers a good [voting guide](http://www.lwvaustin.org/votersguide/2016PrimaryVotersGuide%20-%20English.pdf) to all the candidates. As long as you're registered to vote, you just have to show up at the FAC before 7pm with your identification and you're good to go!