---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Learning Python"
---

It feels weird to have a cookie-cutter set of questions in a blog post, but as it's now part of the specification, here goes:

1. *What did you do this past week?*

Last week I was able to attend all of my lectures, thankfully, and made a little more progress on the Collatz project. I just got back from a very successful concert at the PAX South convention, which I spent a lot of time practicing and getting ready for.

2. *What's in your way?*

Now that PAX is over with, not much, but since it's still early in the semester I always worry about how I'm going to manage my time best, especially since I work 20+ hours/week. Python is still very new to me, so that's probably my biggest hurdle in this class, but I've learned new programming languages in the past, and Python doesn't seem like a particularly scary one so far.

3. *What will you do next week?*

If nothing goes horribly wrong, finish the Collatz project of course. Maybe I can even make mine fast, by Python standards.

Other comments about this class so far - since I've been in two of Glenn Downing's other classes before, a lot of the material has been the same, but the fact that we're learning in Python is keeping things interesting for me. The Friday lecture on exceptions was especially illuminating - first of all, I was surprised by the fact that you can make a local variable in a function with the same name as a global, and use it independent of the global. For example:
```
x = 0

def fun():
	x = 42

fun()
print(x)
```
... actually outputs 0, not 42. If you actually want to use a global inside a function, you need to use the `global` keyword:
```
x = 0

def fun():
	global x
	x = 42

fun()
print(x)
```
Which gets you 42. Small things like that are easy to learn and easy to forget, so I need to make sure I'm getting plenty of reminders by doing a little bit of Python code every day.

**Tip of the Week**: I am a big fan of JetBrains IDEs, which make my programming life way easier by providing lots of helpful coding shortcuts and checking the correctness and quality of my code while I focus on the bigger picture. The best part is that they let [students use their software for free](https://www.jetbrains.com/student/). JetBrains' Python IDE, [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/), has been around for quite a while and I highly recommend it!