---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Netflix and... Never Mind"
---

*What did you do this past week?*

This week in class we started our latest project, "Netflix", which attempts to solve the problem detailed in the [Netflix Prize](http://www.netflixprize.com/) competition. The project involves handling large amounts of data, something I've never done before, but I'm learning a lot about Python IO and hopefully will be successful.

We also heard from a guest speaker, who talked about being a software engineer at his company Main Street Hub. His presentation was well-prepared and he had some good advice for students. I'm always a little down when guest speakers come in, because I'd much rather have a lecture, but hopefully other students get value out of them.

*What's in your way?*

I'm having a bit of trouble getting this project really going. I made some very simple caches for the class, but beyond that I'm running into the issue of planning out my program modularly in such a way that I can unit test it effectively. I think software design is really important in the early stages, but when starting from a blank slate, it's easy to get overwhelmed. It would be nice if we went over some tips on starting to create an application from scratch in this class.

The other thing in my way is Valentine's Day - because I'm kind of a cooking addict and like to use holidays as an excuse to indulge this hobby, I have big plans that are going to take up a lot of my time.

*What will you do next week?*

With focus and resolve, hopefully finish the Netflix project on time. This weekend I'd really like to get the skeletons for my functions built out and unit tests written before diving head-first into the solving and prediction algorithms.

Besides all that, I'm still really enjoying the class. Mr. Downing specializes in showing off the intricacies and inner workings of whatever programming language we're working with. I continue to wrestle with some challenges of working in Python - mostly dealing with runtime errors that are compile time errors in other languages I'm familiar with (C++, C#). Those sorts of problems are frustrating when trying to get a project done on time, but they definitely keep me interested and engaged.

**Tip of the Week**: When browsing [MSDN](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/dn308572.aspx) recently, I saw a familiar name pop up - Charles Petzold - which reminded me of the book that solidified my decision to go get a degree in Computer Science in the first place: [Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Software and Hardware](http://amzn.com/0735611319). It's a lot of low-level stuff, which may not be every programmer's cup of tea, but I love how it starts from the bottom up of telling the story of how computers and computer programming came to be in the first place.