---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: Software Engineering, or \"swee\""
---

Before beginning my final(!) semester of school last week, I made sure I was well prepared for surviving the long months of little free time: laundry was done, errands were run, and video games were played. My first day of class on Wednesday went well, and I have high hopes for learning a lot just from the two courses I'm taking - SWE (obviously) and Programming Languages. I also work part-time for National Instruments, and last week I was wrapping up a big project I've been working on since the beginning of last summer.

But all those things got put on a short hiatus last Friday, as I came down with a terrible stomach bug - the second in 4 months. Despite having a pretty healthy diet and exercising regularly, I've suffered a number of unexpected health issues over the past year that have challenged my already busy schedule and extremely tight finances. I'm recovering quickly, thankfully, and with any luck I can get through the rest of college without any more of these incidents. Besides that, the only thing standing in my way is shifting my brain back into learning mode, which shouldn't be too much of a challenge, since my classes seem pretty interesting!

This week I'm hitting the ground running (maybe more like "slow jogging" since I'm still feeling a bit ill). I've already gotten started on the [Collatz project](http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/downing/cs373/projects/Collatz.html), Monday is "Test Day" for my project at work, and I plan to stay on track in my other class as much as possible. Hopefully I can get a lot of my schoolwork done early, because on Friday, I'm going to San Antonio to attend [PAX South](http://south.paxsite.com/), where [my band](http://the-returners.com/) will be performing some excellent video game tunes in a huge concert hall.

**Tip of the Week**: UTCS now has a [Competitive Programming Club](https://www.facebook.com/groups/311664085637049/), which is sort of a companion to the CS 109 class, except anyone can participate! I was only able to attend a couple of sessions last semester, but I highly enjoyed them and got a lot out of them. Since I'm not really competitive myself - nor do I have anywhere near the experience in these competitions that some of my classmates have - I used them as an opportunity to hone my skills in whatever language I was learning at the time. Last semester it was C++ and Java, but this year I think I'll definitely try to do some of their problems in Python if I can.

Excitement lies ahead! See you next week.
