---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Iterable"
---

Between the lecture material in class and kicking off "Iteration 1" of my next big project at work, I apparently can't get enough of hearing the words "iterable", "iteration", "iterator", etc.

*What did you do this past week?*

This week was a nice break from the usual intensity of trying to complete a programming project, since I don't think our next project in this class will be assigned until after the first exam. On Monday we learned the very tricky rules of function parameters in Python. Since it was tricky, I had a good feeling we would be quizzed over it, and sure enough we were, so I'm glad I took a little time to review the rules of passing parameters by name and unpacking etc. before Wednesday's class.

On Wednesday, Conrad Stoll from Mutual Mobile came to talk to our class about his job. I'd seen him talk in a previous semester, so unfortunately it was a little dull to sit through the talk again, but he did make a couple of changes to his slides (which were very well done again), and in general he does have some insightful information for undergraduate students interested in software development.

On Friday we dove even deeper into iterators, and did a good exercise in class that I think was very helpful in getting my brain in gear to study for the impending exam on Thursday. I always kind of dread the in-class exercises, but I think I learn the most from them, since they are so hands-on.

*What's in your way?*

Since I've gotten the homework for my other class done early, and don't have too many other responsibilities to worry about this week, the only thing that can possibly get in my way are procrastination and distractions. So I'm going to try to keep those to a minimum!

*What will you do next week?*

Get my cheat sheet done and prepare to do well on the exam. I really like that Prof. Downing allows a sheet of notes, because the practice of making the notes is in itself good preparation for the exam, and it just makes me feel a little better to go into an exam with something more than my 30 year-old memory to rely on.

**Tip of the Week**: I really love Firefox and its huge library of add-ons. One of my favorites is [LeechBlock](http://www.proginosko.com/leechblock/), a simple tool that allows you to block distracting webpages at specific times. For example, I have a tendency to head over to Facebook when I'm either bored or stumped on an assignment, but then I end up wasting way more time than I should. So when I really need to get things done, I tell LeechBlock to block Facebook for `x` hours and voila - if I unthinkingly try to browse over to any Facebook content, it pops up with the [webpage](http://www-zeuthen.desy.de/~nkelhos/focus/) I set LeechBlock to show me instead.