---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Wrapping up Python"
---

We had an exam Thursday night that was some parts short answer, but mostly programming in Python. I can't say much about it for risk of revealing too much, but I think it was pretty fair - the point values assigned to the short answer questions seemed a little arbitrary, but other than that there wasn't anything too unexpected. To reiterate from last week, I was very glad to have the cheat sheet if only to make myself not so nervous about possibly forgetting things.

*What did you do this past week?*

I totally bombed Monday's quiz despite studying for it (0 out of 7 points, ouch!), but I didn't let that shake my confidence too much and just used it as motivation to work harder on preparing for the exam to come. On Wednesday, Mr. Downing announced that it was to be our final lecture on the Python language, but I'm certain it won't be the last time we see Python in this class. I'm glad to say that I'm feeling miles more confident with programming in Python than when I first started this course. There is always a painful adjustment period when learning something new, but by the time the exam rolled around, I was unpacking arguments and doing list comprehensions like they [ain't no thang](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=ain%27t+no+thang).

*What's in your way?*

Nothing, for the moment! I kind of wish the exam had been the week before Spring Break, so that we didn't need to worry about the next project during that time, but I guess that's too much to ask. ;) 

*What will you do next week?*

Despite Spring Break coming up, I'm eager about getting started on the group project. I think the first part of it will have to do with databases, which I enjoy working with, but which I do need to review a little more. Two of my brilliant coworkers are going to be on my team, so it's going to be good!

**Tip of the Week**: Programming takes a lot of brain power, and since exercise gets associated so closely with jocks, people often forget or don't realize that physical activity is actually *really good for your brain*. So here's [a Jeff Atwood post](http://blog.codinghorror.com/programming-your-hands/) you can read about it, but honestly the weather is so nice, and there are bluebonnets and [mescalbean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mescalbean) in bloom everywhere, so really I suggest that you just go outside right now and enjoy the sunshine.